almost ten years have passed since EA
and maxis released the sims a
combination of virtual dollhouse and
people simulator that initially seemed
like a gamble but quickly blossomed into
a huge hit that tapped into the
mainstream market like few games before
or since the creation of famed SimCity
designer will write the sims lets you
create virtual people and control every
aspect of their lives altogether the
series has sold more than 100 million
copies making it the most successful pc
game franchise of all time now it's time
for the sims 3 the first major update in
almost five years the sims 3 should be a
huge leap forward for the series because
the focus is no longer on a single house
instead the sims 3 will introduce a
virtual town populated by dozens of
other characters going about their own
lives and they'll find love get married
and have kids on their own making it
feel like a real live place meanwhile
your characters can go across the street
or across town without ever hitting a
loading screen which means you're no
longer spending your entire day around
the same house if you have a family of
characters you can seamlessly jump from
one member to another whether they're
hanging out at the park studying at the
library working out at the gym or just
lounging on the couch at home the sims 3
is also less about the mundane details
of everyday life and more about having
fun in the first two games of the series
your characters had to go to the
bathroom constantly in the sims 3 your
characters have much stronger bladders
and they only have to go to the bathroom
once or twice per day that means that
you can focus more on telling stories or
trying to accomplish your characters
wishes and dreams whether that be
falling in love or stealing candy from a
baby you'll also create much more
realistic people the series of
personality sliders from the first two
games which let you alternate between
extremes such as lazy
or active are gone now you can mix and
match up to five different traits to
create almost any kind of personality
these traits range from athletic too
flirty to kleptomaniac ea likes to say
that the sims is about telling stories
and the sims 3 will let you record
movies in game that you can then edit on
the sims 3 website you can take your
finish creations and share them online
posting them to sites like YouTube
you'll also be able to share a lot more
from custom furniture patterns to
characters themselves the sims 3 is in
the final weeks of polish and testing a
TA and we've had a chance to see the
game running several times now the good
news is that you won't need an expensive
PC or graphics card to run the game
we've seen it running on a new macbook
with integrated graphics just fine yes
that's right the sims 3 will ship for
the mac in addition to the pc when you
put it all together it's clear that the
sims 3 promises to be a huge leap
forward for sim kind and gamers alike
when it ships on jun 2 it will also be
the game that helps to usher in the
second decade of the sims